- [Instructor] Now there's several ways
to deploy a controller using Kubernetes
and the first way that we're going to look at
and the one that we're going to use in this course
is actually using Kubebuilder to do the deploy.
Now in the real world,
we would do this a little bit differently
but for now this will work
and I'll talk through the other options
as we jump into our code.
So let's get to our IDE.
So we need to make a couple of modifications
to the actual manifest that's going to be used.
So open up config, manager, and look at the manager.yaml.
And this is a deployment manifest that is used
by the make system to deploy the artifact.
We're going to scroll down here
and underneath the image name,
so right here on line 35, we're going to add a new value.
We're going to put an image pull policy to if not present.
Now the reason we're going to do that
is because you'll see that we're deploying the latest
and that's because we're still in development mode.
If you pull the latest, it's always going to try to do
an image pull from a remote system.
And we want to prevent that
because we're not deploying this anywhere
to an image repository.
The next thing that we need to do
is we need to add some environment variables.
So underneath the name here, I'm going to add a couple things.
I'm going to do an ENV.
And the first thing I'm going to do is a name
and we're going to call this AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID.
This should look very familiar if you've done Kubernetes.
We're going to do a value from.
We're going to do that as a secretKeyRef.
We're going to do our name
and we're going to call this thing objstore-secret.
And the key, we will just use the same value,
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID.
Now, if you're doing this locally,
you can definitely just pass in the environment here.
You don't have to go through the secret
but I want to make sure that you see how this is
more likely to be done in the real world.
Granted, I would actually be using a home chart to do this
and we'll talk a little bit about that here in a bit.
So let's go down in our SECRET_ACCESS_KEY.
Okay, so our file is now ready.
I'm a going to execute a couple commands
to let some things happen in the background
while we go make our secret.
So, I'm going to jump into terminal.
And the first time I'm going to do
is I'm going to do a make undeploy.
I just feel more comfortable doing a full undeploy
before we go do any more work.
So then once again, I'll do a make.
We'll make our manifest. Make sure everything is good to go.
I'm going to go ahead and do a make install
even though I don't really need to do the install here
because we're going to reinstall over the top of it
and then I'm going to do a make docker-build.
Now this is going to take a while.
So I'm going to let this run in the background.
And while this is going on,
we'll talk about building our secret.
So once that's often running
and we can see the downloads happening,
let's jump back to our IDE.
So now within our IDE, I want to create a secret
under the directory for our project.
So let's create a new file.
I'm just going to simply call this secret.yaml.
Now API version V1.
Kind is going to be a secret.
Metadata name will be objstore our secret.
Our namespace is going to be cninf-system
and that's where this is going to deploy.
If you read through all the manifests
that come with Kubebuilder,
this is the deploy place within Kubernetes
where this is going to live.
So we'll have to go create that namespace
to put the secret out there
but for now, this is fine.
The type of secret is opaque and the data for our secret.
So we're going to have an AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
and an AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY.
Spell that properly.
Now, to get the data for this,
if you've never worked with secrets,
we actually have to base64 and code it.
I'm not going to show my secrets on screen per se
even though I'm going to delete them
by the time you see them.
But I do want to sort of keep an idea that these are secrets
so I'm going to keep them off screen and just copy and paste.
But let's go into our terminal window
and we can see the docker's running still
so we'll jump into our other value.
Now what we're going to do is I want you to copy the value
for the AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID.
And what you're going to do is an echo -n, put your value in
and then you're going to pipe that to base64.
Now for me, this was my access key ID
so I will copy that.
I'm going to go back to my IDE.
I'm going to paste that in for my ACCESS_KEY_ID.
And that's the base64 encoded value.
I like to put a space here. There we go.
All right, that one's good to go.
So now let's do our other one.
Jump back to the terminal.
Once again, you do an echo -n
and we will base64 and code this.
Copy the data and drop it in.
So now our secret is ready to go.
We can use that.
Close that file down.
I want to go check on Docker.
For me Docker is still running.
It may not be done for you. It may be done.
We'll let that go in the background.
In the meantime, let's go ahead and create our namespace.
So we will do a K create NS cninf-system.
So now we've created that system
and now I want to do a k apply -f objstore-secret
- n cninf-system.
And I like to put the namespace,
it's just me being me so,
we're going to apply that file to the cninf-system.
It's actual name as I called it was secret.yaml
so I need to fix that here and enter.
Okay, that secret has been created.
We can validate that by doing a k get secret -n cninf-system
It's out there.
Everything's good to go.
So now we are going to be ready to deploy.
So let's check on Docker.
Looks like Docker is done which is great.
So we need to get our Docker image that has been built
out to our kind cluster.
So I am going to copy this data here
and I'm going to do a kind load docker-image,
paste that in and I have named my kind cluster LIL.
So this is going to go ahead and load this out there
and now we have the Docker image loaded.
So now we're actually good to go out and deploy
this to our environment.
So we will do a make deploy.
And it's going to run through several things.
You can read what's being created.
So it's creating values that need to be
out in the infrastructure.
And we also need to make sure, I do not remember
but let's go ahead and double check.
Let's make the actual CRD back out there again
in case I did not do that before.
I just like to do these things a couple times
to make sure.
Everything should be good
so let's take a look at our cninf-system.
You'll see we've got two pods running of our manager
which is great.
So now I can do a k apply -n lil -f config/samples.
We're going to put it back out there.
K get objstore -n lil.
It's already been created in the time
that it took me to type that.
So S3API list-buckets.
There's the value that we created
and let's just double check.
We can do a delete so K delete objstore -n lil fpmlil -01
and we've deleted it.
Everything should be good to go.
You're good to run your system.
This has been a whirlwind of activity
but we have a working controller that does its thing.